Some benchmarks for the documentation (#123)
SKopecz/PositiveIntegrators.jl: docs/src/convergence.md

# [Experimental convergence order of MPRK schemes](@id convergence_mprk)

## Second order MPRK schemes

```@example eoc
using PositiveIntegrators

# choose schemes
algs = [MPRK22(0.5)
        MPRK22(2.0 / 3.0)
        MPRK22(1.0)
        SSPMPRK22(0.5, 1.0)]

names = ["MPRK22(0.5)"
         "MPRK22(2.0/3.0)"
         "MPRK22(1.0)"
         "SSPMPRK22(0.5, 1.0)"]

prob = prob_pds_linmod

#nothing #hide
#```
#```@example eoc
using DiffEqDevTools

dts = 0.5 .^ (5:10)
err = Vector{Vector{Float64}}(undef, length(algs))
eoc = Vector{Vector{Float64}}(undef, length(algs))

#compute errors and experimental order of convergence
for i in eachindex(algs)
    sim = test_convergence(dts, prob, algs[i])
    err[i] = sim.errors[:l∞]
    eoc[i] = -log2.(err[i][2:end] ./ err[i][1:(end - 1)])
end
#```
#
#```@example eoc
using PrettyTables

> # collect data and create headers

Author: Coding this almost drove me crazy! 

Originally I used something like `data = dts` outside the loop and `data = [data err[i] [NaN; eoc[i]]]` within the loop. This was perfectly fine on my local machine, but caused an error like "data not defined" in the build process.

@ranocha: Any idea what the problem was/is?

Reviewer: Did you built the docs locally or copy and paste the code to the REPL?

Author: Oh. I didn't build the docs locally, I copied & pasted everything from my vscode repl to the markdown files. But I ensured to use the docs environment.

Reviewer: Then it might be an issue of soft global scope, see https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/variables-and-scoping/#on-soft-scope

Reviewer: You may need to add a keyword `global`

N =  1 + 2*length(algs)
data = Matrix{Float64}(undef, length(dts), N)
data[:,1] = dts
header = Matrix{String}(undef, 1, N)
header[1] = "Δt"
subheader = Matrix{String}(undef, 1, N)
subheader[1] = ""
for i in eachindex(algs)
    #data = [data err[i] [NaN; eoc[i]]]
    data[:, 2*i] = err[i]
    data[:, 2*i+1] = [NaN; eoc[i]]
    #header = [header names[i] names[i]]
    header[1, 2*i] = names[i]
    header[1, 2*i+1] = names[i]
    #subheader = [subheader "Error" "EOC"]
    subheader[1, 2*i] = "Error"
    subheader[1, 2*i+1] = "EOC"
end

# print table
pretty_table(data; header = (header, subheader),
             formatters = (ft_printf("%5.4e", [1, 2, 4, 6, 8]),

>                            ft_printf("%5.4f", [3, 5, 7, 9])))

Reviewer: I think we don't need all of the digits - this would also keep the tables smaller so that we don't have to scroll as much. And maybe we can just show "EOC" right next to the value so that the headers in the first row are not duplicated.

# [Experimental convergence order of MPRK schemes](@id convergence_mprk)

> In this tutorial we check that the implemented MPRK schemes have the expected order of convergence. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we check that the implemented MPRK schemes have the expected order of convergence. 
```

## Conservative production-destruction systems

> First, we consider conservative production-destruction systems (PDS). To investigate the convergence order we define the non-autonomous test problem 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we consider conservative production-destruction systems (PDS). To investigate the convergence order, we define the non-autonomous test problem 
```

```math
\begin{aligned}

> u_1' &= \cos(\pi t)^2 u_2 - \sin(2\pi t)^2 u_1, & u_1(0)&=0.9\\
> u_2' & = \sin(2\pi t)^2 u_1 - \cos(\pi t)^2 u_2, & u_2(0)&=0.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
u_1' &= \cos(\pi t)^2 u_2 - \sin(2\pi t)^2 u_1, & u_1(0)&=0.9, \\
u_2' & = \sin(2\pi t)^2 u_1 - \cos(\pi t)^2 u_2, & u_2(0)&=0.1,
```

\end{aligned}
```
for ``0≤ t≤ 1``.

> The PDS is conservative, since the sum of the right hand side terms equals zero. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PDS is conservative since the sum of the right-hand side terms equals zero. 
```

An implementation of the problem is given next.

```@example eoc
using PositiveIntegrators

# define problem
P(u, p, t) = [0.0 cos.(π * t) .^ 2 * u[2]; sin.(2 * π * t) .^ 2 * u[1] 0.0]
prob = ConservativePDSProblem(P, [0.9; 0.1], (0.0, 1.0))

nothing # hide
```

> To use `analyticless_test_convergence` from [`DiffEqDevTools`](https://github.com/SciML/DiffEqDevTools.jl) we need to pick a solver to compute the reference solution and specify tolerances. Since the problem is not stiff we use the high order explicit solver `Vern9()` from [`OrdinaryDiffEq`](https://docs.sciml.ai/OrdinaryDiffEq/stable/). Moreover, we need to choose the different time step sizes which are used to investigate the convergence behavior. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use `analyticless_test_convergence` from [DiffEqDevTools.jl](https://github.com/SciML/DiffEqDevTools.jl), we need to pick a solver to compute the reference solution and specify tolerances.
Since the problem is not stiff, we use the high-order explicit solver `Vern9()` from [OrdinaryDiffEqVerner.jl](https://docs.sciml.ai/OrdinaryDiffEq/stable/).
Moreover, we choose time step sizes to investigate the convergence behavior. 
```

```@example eoc
using OrdinaryDiffEqVerner

> using DiffEqDevTools # load analyticless_test_convergence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using DiffEqDevTools: analyticless_test_convergence
```

# solver and tolerances to compute reference solution
test_setup = Dict(:alg => Vern9(), :reltol => 1e-14, :abstol => 1e-14)

# choose step sizes
dts = 0.5 .^ (5:10)

nothing # hide
```

> ### Second order MPRK schemes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Second-order MPRK schemes
```

> First, we test several second order MPRK schemes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we test several second-order MPRK schemes.
```

```@example eoc
# select schemes
algs2 = [MPRK22(0.5); MPRK22(2.0 / 3.0); MPRK22(1.0); SSPMPRK22(0.5, 1.0)]
labels2 = ["MPRK22(0.5)"; "MPRK22(2.0/3.0)"; "MPRK22(1.0)"; "SSPMPRK22(0.5, 1.0)"]

> #compute errors and experimental order of convergence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# compute errors and experimental order of convergence
```

err_eoc = []
for i in eachindex(algs2)
     sim = analyticless_test_convergence(dts, prob, algs2[i], test_setup)

     err = sim.errors[:l∞]

>      eoc = [NaN; -log2.(err[2:end] ./ err[1:(end - 1)])]

Author: ``sim.𝒪est[:l∞]`` is just a single number which represents some average of the values in ``eoc``. I wanted to create the usual tables.

>      eoc = [NaN; -log2.(err[2:end] ./ err[1:(end - 1)])]

Reviewer 2: Ah, good to know. Thanks for the clarification!

     push!(err_eoc, tuple.(err, eoc))
end
```

> Next, we print a table with the computed data. The table lists the errors obtained with the respective time step size ``Δ t`` as well as the estimated order of convergence in parenthesis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we print a table with the computed data.
The table lists the errors obtained with the respective time step size ``Δ t`` as well as the estimated order of convergence in parentheses.
```

```@example eoc

> using Printf # load @sprintf
> using PrettyTables # load pretty_table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using Printf: @sprintf
using PrettyTables: pretty_table
```

# gather data for table
data = hcat(dts, reduce(hcat,err_eoc))

# print table
formatter = (v, i, j) ->  (j>1) ? (@sprintf "%5.2e (%4.2f) " v[1] v[2]) : (@sprintf "%5.2e " v)
pretty_table(data, formatters = formatter, header = ["Δt"; labels2])                  
```

The table shows that all schemes converge as expected.

> ### Third order MPRK schemes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Third-order MPRK schemes
```

> In this section, we proceed as above, but consider third order MPRK schemes instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we proceed as above, but consider third-order MPRK schemes instead.
```

```@example eoc
# select 3rd order schemes
algs3 = [MPRK43I(1.0, 0.5); MPRK43I(0.5, 0.75); MPRK43II(0.5); MPRK43II(2.0 / 3.0); 
         SSPMPRK43()]
labels3 = ["MPRK43I(1.0,0.5)"; "MPRK43I(0.5, 0.75)"; "MPRK43II(0.5)"; "MPRK43II(2.0/3.0)";
          "SSPMPRK43()"]

> #compute errors and experimental order of convergence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# compute errors and experimental order of convergence
```

err_eoc = []
for i in eachindex(algs3)
     sim = analyticless_test_convergence(dts, prob, algs3[i], test_setup)

     err = sim.errors[:l∞]
     eoc = [NaN; -log2.(err[2:end] ./ err[1:(end - 1)])]

     push!(err_eoc, tuple.(err, eoc))
end

# gather data for table
data = hcat(dts, reduce(hcat,err_eoc))

# print table
formatter = (v, i, j) ->  (j>1) ? (@sprintf "%5.2e (%4.2f) " v[1] v[2]) : (@sprintf "%5.2e " v)
pretty_table(data, formatters = formatter, header = ["Δt"; labels3])  
```

As above, the table shows that all schemes converge as expected.

## Non-conservative PDS

In this section we consider the non-autonomous but non-conservative test problem 

```math
\begin{aligned}
u_1' &= \cos(\pi t)^2 u_2 - \sin(2\pi t)^2 u_1 - \cos(2\pi t)^2 u_1, & u_1(0)&=0.9,\\

> u_2' & = \sin(2\pi t)^2 u_1 - \cos(\pi t)^2 u_2 - \sin(\pi t)^2 u_2, & u_2(0)&=0.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
u_2' & = \sin(2\pi t)^2 u_1 - \cos(\pi t)^2 u_2 - \sin(\pi t)^2 u_2, & u_2(0)&=0.1,
```

\end{aligned}
```

for ``0≤ t≤ 1``.

> Since the sum of the right hand side terms don't cancel, the PDS is indeed non-conservative. Hence, we need to use `PDSProblem` for its implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the sum of the right-hand side terms does not cancel, the PDS is indeed non-conservative.
Hence, we need to use [`PDSProblem`](@ref) for its implementation.
```

```@example eoc
# choose problem
P(u, p, t) = [0.0 cos.(π * t) .^ 2 * u[2]; sin.(2 * π * t) .^ 2 * u[1] 0.0]
D(u, p, t) = [cos.(2 * π * t) .^ 2 * u[1]; sin.(π * t) .^ 2 * u[2]]
prob = PDSProblem(P, D, [0.9; 0.1], (0.0, 1.0))

nothing # hide
```

The following sections will show that the selected MPRK schemes show the expected convergence order also for this non-conservative PDS.

> ### Second order MPRK schemes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Second-order MPRK schemes
```

```@example eoc

> #compute errors and experimental order of convergence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# compute errors and experimental order of convergence
```

err_eoc = []
for i in eachindex(algs2)
     sim = analyticless_test_convergence(dts, prob, algs2[i], test_setup)

     err = sim.errors[:l∞]
     eoc = [NaN; -log2.(err[2:end] ./ err[1:(end - 1)])]

     push!(err_eoc, tuple.(err, eoc))
end

# gather data for table
data = hcat(dts, reduce(hcat,err_eoc))

# print table
formatter = (v, i, j) ->  (j>1) ? (@sprintf "%5.2e (%4.2f) " v[1] v[2]) : (@sprintf "%5.2e " v)
pretty_table(data, formatters = formatter, header = ["Δt"; labels2])                  
```

> ### Third order MPRK schemes
> 
> ```@example eoc
> #compute errors and experimental order of convergence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Third-order MPRK schemes

```@example eoc
# compute errors and experimental order of convergence
```
